{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1036
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Consolas;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green70\blue140;\red80\green80\blue80;\red200\green80\blue40;}
{\*\generator Lucie Process Doc;}\viewkind4\uc1
\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22 \pard\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\fs40\b\cf2 Lucie: Salesforce Doc Generator\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\fs40\b\cf2 Usage guide for Squads, Tech Leads and the Design Review\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\fs22 This document explains step-by-step how Squads, Tech Leads and the Design Review use Lucie to produce, share and leverage a high-quality Salesforce documentation. It emphasises the benefits brought by the tool and the collaborative aspect across the team.\par
\page
\pard\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\fs40\b\cf2 1. Overview\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\fs22 Lucie is an internal tool that analyses a Salesforce org and produces: a complete HTML documentation (objects, Apex, Flows, OmniStudio, permissions), detailed Excel workbooks (data dictionary, profiles, permission sets, inventory, PMD violations) and two Word documents (a data dictionary and a summary holding prioritised advice).\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\fs22 Three audiences use Lucie:\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Squads: to quickly explore the metadata, prepare a story or validate the impact of a delivery.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Tech Leads: to drive technical quality, follow the org evolution sprint after sprint and feed cross-cutting reviews.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Design Review: to rely on a standardised support to arbitrate and prioritise the actions to take.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\fs22 The generated documentation is centralised in a shared folder so everyone works on the same body of knowledge.\par
\pard\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\fs40\b\cf2 2. Key benefits\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Automated, standardised documentation: no more manual maintenance of the data dictionary, the Apex/Flow pages or the permission set list.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Prioritised advice: the Word summary lists actions sorted by severity then by occurrence count. The most impactful items appear first.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Adopt vs Adapt score: a synthetic indicator to compare the level of customisation across orgs or over time.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Anti-pattern detection: static analysis rules inspired by PMD, the Salesforce Well-Architected Framework and the Architect Decision Guides.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Multilingual: generation in French or English depending on the UI language.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Built-in AI assistant: discuss the analysed org with Claude or Gemini.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Native collaboration: shareable configuration (weights, rules, exclusions), shared output folder, format suited to meeting minutes.\par
\pard\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\fs40\b\cf2 3. Setup and shared configuration\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\fs22 Before rolling Lucie out to the Squads, the technical owner sets up a shared reference configuration.\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 3.1 Installation\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 1.\tab Clone the repository.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 2.\tab Install dependencies: pip install -r requirements.txt.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 3.\tab (Optional) Install Salesforce CLI (sf) and PMD for the built-in features.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 4.\tab Run the application: python app.py.\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 3.2 Shared configuration\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\fs22 In the configuration screen, the team agrees on:\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab The shared output folder (network share, OneDrive or SharePoint accessible to every Squad).\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab The exclusion file (exclusion.xlsx), versioned and used by every Squad to homogenise results.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab The PMD ruleset (optional), versioned in the same shared repository.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab The static analysis rules (rules.xml): validate the enabled rules through the "Analysis rules" tab.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Scoring weights and Adopt vs Adapt weights: standardised, otherwise scores stop being comparable across Squads.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab The interface language (FR or EN), which drives the language of the generated Word documents.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab The "Generate the Data Dictionary Word document" and "Generate the summary Word document" toggles: ticked by default, leave them on so Design Review has its inputs.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab AI API keys (Claude, Gemini): personal, kept in each user's individual configuration.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\li567\ri567\i\cf3\fs22 Tip: versioning exclusion.xlsx, rules.xml and the PMD ruleset in a shared Git repository ensures consistent analyses across all Squads.\i0\cf1\par
\page
\pard\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\fs40\b\cf2 4. How Squads use the tool\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\fs22 Each Squad uses Lucie for everyday needs: exploring the org, preparing a story, auditing before a release.\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 4.1 Standard run\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 1.\tab Open Lucie via python app.py.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 2.\tab Pick the source folder (Salesforce retrieve output or clone of the Squad repo).\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 3.\tab Pick the shared output folder, in a Squad-specific dated subfolder (e.g. \\\\share\\lucie\\squad-alpha\\2026-04-25).\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 4.\tab Load the Salesforce org: either via Web login + alias then Generate manifest and Run retrieve, or directly via the Manifest + Retrieve + Doc button which chains everything.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 5.\tab Click Generate documentation.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 6.\tab Open the HTML index and explore the generated docs.\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 4.2 Recommended use cases\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Onboarding a new joiner: the HTML documentation provides an instant map of the org (objects, flows, Apex classes, permissions).\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Preparing a story: open the data dictionary Word document or the page of the impacted object to identify existing fields, record types and rules.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Pre-release audit: generate the docs before delivery and compare the Word summary with the previous run to spot new findings.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Quick check: ask the AI assistant (Discussion tab) about the org instead of digging through code.\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 4.3 Squad guidelines\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Run the generation before each sprint review to have a stable baseline.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Store the documentation in the shared folder: other Squads and Design Review will rely on it.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab React quickly to the Critical and Major findings of the Word summary; they are the first to surface in Design Review.\par
\pard\sa160\sb160\li360\ri360\b\cf4\fs24 [DIAGRAM PLACEHOLDER 1: Squad workflow - insert here the PNG or PDF export of squad_workflow.drawio.]\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\page
\pard\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\fs40\b\cf2 5. How Tech Leads use the tool\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\fs22 The Tech Lead drives the technical quality of their Squad and feeds the cross-cutting reviews led by the manager.\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 5.1 Tooling responsibilities\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Maintain the shared configuration (analysis rules, exclusion file, scoring weights).\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Make sure the Squad generates the documentation at least once per sprint.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Review the findings raised and organise their treatment with the Squad.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Surface to the manager the topics that go beyond the Squad boundaries and deserve a Design Review.\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 5.2 Typical sprint workflow\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 1.\tab Beginning of sprint: pull the latest generation stored in the shared folder as a reference baseline.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 2.\tab During the sprint: launch an intermediate analysis on a major refactor (new object, Apex refactor, Flow migration).\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 3.\tab End of sprint: generate the full documentation and archive it in the shared folder (dated subfolder).\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 4.\tab Prepare the retrospective / sprint review: pull the 3 to 5 highest-priority actions from the Word summary.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 5.\tab Prepare the Design Review: surface to the manager the cross-cutting findings and arbitration topics.\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 5.3 Indicators to watch\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Customisation score evolution sprint after sprint.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Adopt vs Adapt score evolution.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Findings volume per severity (Critical, Major, Minor, Info).\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Top 5 triggered rules, visible in the Advice chapter of the Word summary.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Number of objects and fields actually documented (data dictionary).\par
\page
\pard\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\fs40\b\cf2 6. Use in Design Review\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\fs22 The Design Review combines outputs produced by every Squad to take coordinated architecture decisions. This is where the Word summary and its Advice chapter shine.\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 6.1 Before the meeting\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 1.\tab The manager (Design Review host) gathers from the shared folder the summary.docx of every Squad, the matching data_dictionary.docx and the HTML index for technical details.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 2.\tab Preliminary read of the Advice chapter of every summary.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 3.\tab Selection of actions to debate, prioritising Critical and Major ones.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 4.\tab Building the agenda from that selection.\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 6.2 During the meeting\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 1.\tab Walk through the Word summary: cover page, overview, customisation metrics, then Advice chapter.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 2.\tab For each priority action, discuss the finding with the concerned Squad.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 3.\tab Decide the action: fix now, documented exception or deferred with deadline.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 4.\tab Assign the responsible Squad and action owner.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 5.\tab If needed, open the data dictionary Word document or HTML documentation to double-check a technical detail.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 6.\tab Capture each decision in the meeting minutes by quoting the rule identifier (for example APEX-SEC-001).\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 6.3 After the meeting\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Store the meeting minutes next to the analysed documentation in the shared folder.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Minutes refer to findings from the Word summary, which makes decisions replayable.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab At the next Design Review, verify the decrease in occurrence count for every treated finding and acknowledge the Squads that progressed.\par
\pard\sa160\sb160\li360\ri360\b\cf4\fs24 [DIAGRAM PLACEHOLDER 2: Design Review workflow - insert here the PNG or PDF export of design_review_workflow.drawio.]\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\page
\pard\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\fs40\b\cf2 7. Collaborative aspect and shared folder\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\fs22 The tool delivers its full value when shared and when every actor works from the same reference folder.\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 7.1 Suggested layout\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\sa60\sl240\slmult1\li360\f1\fs20\cf4 \\\\share\\lucie\\\line +-- _config\\\line |   +-- exclusion.xlsx\line |   +-- rules.xml\line |   +-- pmd_ruleset.xml\line +-- squad-alpha\\\line |   +-- 2026-04-11\\\line |   |   +-- index.html\line |   |   +-- excel\\...\line |   |   +-- word\\data_dictionary.docx\line |   |   +-- word\\summary.docx\line |   +-- 2026-04-25\\\line +-- squad-beta\\\line +-- design-review\\\line     +-- 2026-04-15-minutes.docx\line     +-- 2026-04-29-minutes.docx\line \f0\fs22\cf1\par
\pard\sb200\sa100\keepn\f0\fs30\b\cf2 7.2 Collaborative benefits\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Single view: everyone reads the same data and the same rules.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Capitalisation: the generation history works as the collective memory of the org.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Comparison: Tech Leads can compare their Squad with others on the same basis.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Traceable decisions: Design Review minutes refer to rule identifiers, making arbitrations replayable.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Easier communication: the Word documents can be shared with non-technical stakeholders (Product Owners, Architects, Sponsors).\par
\pard\sa160\sb160\li360\ri360\b\cf4\fs24 [DIAGRAM PLACEHOLDER 3: Collaborative view - insert here the PNG or PDF export of collaboration_overview.drawio.]\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\fs40\b\cf2 8. Best practices\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Refresh the docs after each major change (new module, object refactor, important batch).\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Version the shared configuration (exclusion.xlsx, rules.xml, pmd_ruleset.xml).\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Name the generation subfolders with an ISO date YYYY-MM-DD to ease sorting.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Limit the use of the exclusion file: it must reflect architecture decisions, not hide problems.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Agree on scoring weights upfront: a score is only meaningful against a shared reference.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Store Design Review minutes alongside the analysed documentation for traceability.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab Run a full cycle (generation + Design Review + fix) at least once per release.\par
\pard\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\fs40\b\cf2 9. Appendices - associated diagrams\b0\cf1\fs22\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\fs22 Three drawio diagrams ship in this folder. Insert them where the PLACEHOLDER blocks appear above:\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab squad_workflow.drawio: Squad workflow over a sprint.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab design_review_workflow.drawio: Design Review flow.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa80\sl276\slmult1\fs22 \bullet\tab collaboration_overview.drawio: high-level view of the collaboration between Squads, Tech Leads and Design Review.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\fs22 How to open them: use https://app.diagrams.net or the Draw.io Integration extension for Visual Studio Code. Export as PNG or PDF and replace the PLACEHOLDER blocks with the matching image.\par
}
